Literature Review Structure

The literature review should be made as a survey of topics, tendencies, and trends illustrated by the references to the literature.

Three examples of literature reviews: http://libguides.uwf.edu/c.php?g=215199&p=1420828 


The text below is based (as a subset of) on https://www.tru.ca/shared/assets/Literature_Review_Template30564.pdf
© Pamela Fry - Writing Centre
Literature Review Template

Definition:
A literature review is an objective, critical summary of published research literature relevant to a topic under consideration for research.
 
Its purpose is to create familiarity with current thinking and research on a particular subject and may justify future research into a previously overlooked or understudied area. A regular literature review consists of the following components:

1.	Introduction
• A concise definition of a topic under consideration (this may be 
a descriptive or argumentative thesis or proposal), as well as
the scope of the related literature being investigated.
(Example: If the topic under consideration is ‘women’s wartime diaries,' 
• The introduction should also note intentional exclusions
• Another purpose of the introduction is to state the general finding of the review (what do most of the sources conclude), and comment on the availability of sources in the subject area. 

2.	Main Body
• There are a number of ways to organize the evaluation of the sources. 
Chronological and thematic approaches are each useful examples
• Each work should be critically summarized and evaluated
for its premise, methodology, and conclusion. It is as important to address inconsistencies, omissions, and errors, as it is to identify accuracy, depth, and relevance.
• Use logical connections and transitions to connect sources.

3.	Conclusion 
• The conclusion summarizes the main findings of the review in general
terms. Notable commonalities between works, whether favorable or not, may be included here. 
• This section is the reviewer’s opportunity to justify a research proposal. Therefore, the idea should be clearly re-stated and supported according to the findings of the review.

4.	References
• As well as accurate in-text citations, a literature review must contain 
complete and correct citations for every source. 


Notes:

Deliverables
Your report must be submitted to Moodle in word format for assessment.

Report Layout
The length of your final report will be 4-5 pages. The format of your report should follow the IEEE style (Times New Roman, 12 font size, double columns).

Extensions 
Extensions of time will be granted for students who have an acceptable documented reason for not completing the assessment by the specified due date.  
Any request extension must be made before the deadline!

Resources
The use of textbooks and journal articles is recommended. Although the Internet contains references to most topics, references like textbooks and journal articles that cite original sources are more appropriate for an academic report – that can be supplemented by other internet references.

1.	The library contains books and journals that discuss and describe all of these topics.  Please look in the business section of the library as well as the computing section.

2.	There are numerous full-text articles available on Proquest, which can be accessed via Moodle.

3.	Remember that you can inter-loan books from other libraries and also visit other libraries to view their books - Unitec, AUT, and the University of Auckland are good sources.
