Academic Report

Due date and time

Report Due:              	23 June Friday 2017   - 5.59 pm (Submit through Moodle)

Total Marks:    	100 marks (30% toward overall course mark) 

Overview

Each student is required to work on a research project for this assignment: conducting a literature review on an advanced topic in Mobile Computing/Development. The literature review should cover both general backgrounds for a specific method/technology that represents the current research on the selected topic.

Each student should read at least 8 journal or conference papers related to the selected topic
and write a final report based on the literature review.

Some specific requirements and guidance

It is important for your review to cover the state of the art of the selected topic. To ensure your review is on “current” research, it is required the main papers that you review are published in the recent 5 years. This is an advanced class and needs research “depth” in your review. Do not spend all your review on the general introduction of the selected topic; your review should have a balanced coverage between general introduction and specific methods/technologies.

The selected papers to be reviewed should be technical oriented, e.g., from IEEE or ACM
journals or conferences.

Your review of the selected papers should be coherently integrated. It works against your scores if your review simply covers several disjointed aspects of a topic. We will have a preview of all the literature reviews (25th Feb.) before the due date. In the preview, each person needs to give an overview description of its topic (in about 5 minutes) and show the list of references to the class. 

It is encouraged to review theories, methodologies, and practices of mobile development
related to emerging applications in recent years (the emphasis should be on the aspect, not the
the application itself). Below are some suggested topics. You are also welcome to discuss/confirm another subject for research with your tutor:

 Mobile Cloud Computing 
 Mobile Social Networking
 Mobile Sensing 
 Mobile‐Commerce
 Mobile learning 
 Mobile Gaming
 Mobile Health Technologies 
 Mobile Payment
 Software Development for smart mobile devices (Apps)
 Context‐awareness Systems for Mobile Phones
 Location‐Based Services for Mobile devices
 Mobile learning technology to support students with special education needs

Sequence your report and reviewing of the review structure
Your review will not only synthesize the literature, but it must present the literature in a logical sequence or order. Your aim is to indicate to the reader an understanding of the problem under investigation.
However, you organize it; your review should highlight important aspects of the
literature; especially areas that you wish to address or improve on. The main attribute of a good literature review is that it is well structured. A good place to start is to look at other literature reviews and theses, but make sure that you are looking at a good example. When examining these pieces of work, try to identify the structure and see how they have linked their ideas together.
Before you emulate what you have read, be aware that plagiarism extends to copying the structure of others' work, so please acknowledge any influences appropriately. The information in the literature review is synthesized or brought together to form a cohesive whole. Those who read the review should clearly understand the reasons for selecting your research area or question, its relationship to past work,
and the central procedures that have been employed by prior investigations. In addition, they should know the weaknesses of previous studies and how your research contributes to this field to the advancement of knowledge.
There is no single best way to organize your chapter, so do not waste precious time looking for it; just write it.

Marking Guide

Reviewing and review question (Content) – 100 Marks

Stating, motivating and answering the review question.
Statement of a specifically focused review problems in the introduction,
Commentary on why this issue is interesting/useful/relevant to this field
Clear identification of, and commentary on, the evidence that each reviewed paper
contributes toward answering the review question.
Some kind of summary/concluding statements about the evidence for your question
Consideration of other papers
Paper selected is relevant to the identified review question
Sufficient, concise, and accurate information about the paper content, such that
readers can understand what was done (or not done) and how the paper relates to your
argument

Key terms and concepts
Evidence, the student, understands which terms are specialist/technical and need to be
defined in the text.

Please refer to the ASSESSMENT MARKING GUIDE for marking criteria guidelines.
